---
title: "Ingest: assets"
categories: ['reference', 'api', 'guides', 'ingestion']
prev: '/reference/ingest-products'
next: '/reference/ingest-link-places'
---
> Reading this guide is only necessary when implementing ingestion yourself.

> Before you read this, please check the [ingestion guide preface](ingestion).

Creating assets in the TrailerVote ecosystem always happens in conjunction with linking that asset to a known product. Therefore only the [product media type](media-type-product) has `images` and `videos` links.

> Assets such as images and videos are stored as [content addressable files](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content-addressable_storage). This means that they can only exist once in our system and can not be updated after they've been created. There **SHOULD** never be a need to update these assets as a change in asset content results in a new content addressable storage location.
> It is currently not possible to DELETE assets after they have been created.

## Create product image

Product images are described by the [product image media type](media-type-product-image). When ingesting a product image into the TrailerVote ecosystem, it just needs to be attached to a product. The `images` link on each [product](media-type-product) gives exactly that: a way to attach an image to a product.

> Currently the TrailerVote ecosystem, due to resource contraints, does not accept file uploads. Each asset must be ingested from a url which either needs to be public, or hold the credentials to access it. Additional headers or authentication is currently not supported.

```
> POST https://example.trailervote.com/api/products/c0782ddc-5926-4d6b-94e1-a3bcaadd867f/images
> Accept: application/vnd.trailervote.product.image.v1+json, application/vnd.trailervote.errors.v1+json; q=0.1
> Content-Type: application/vnd.trailervote.product.image.create.v1+json
>
> {
>   "image": {
>     "identifier": "original/b6ZJZHUdMEFECvGiDpJjlfUWela",
>     "type": "poster",
>     "source_url": "https://image.tmdb.org/t/p/original/b6ZJZHUdMEFECvGiDpJjlfUWela.jpg",
>     "data": {
>       "tmdb": { ... }
>     }
>   }
> }
```

When successful, the result is a `201 Created` with a `Location` containing the url to the created [product image](media-type-product-image). If the image already exists, regardless of the extra data, a `409 Conflict` is returned.

If you're using one of the [packages](ingestion), use:

| language |  |
|----------|---|
| Ruby | `TrailerVote::Api::Product::Image::Create` |
| JavaScript | `trailervote-api/product/image/create` |

After creating an image, it is scheduled for processing. You may query the image (by a `GET` on the returned `self` url) and check the `data->processed` field. Once that is true, the image has been optimised and processed and ready for usage in the TrailerVote ecosystem. When an image is processed, additional sizes automagically become available.

## Create product video

Product videos are described by the [product video media type](media-type-product-video) and the main source for [audio fragments](media-type-audio-fragment). When ingesting a product video into the TrailerVote ecosystem, it just needs to be attached to a product. The `videos` link on each [product](media-type-product) gives exactly that: a way to attach a video to a product. The generated audio fragment and [fingerprints](media-type-fingerprint) will also be attached to the same product.

> Currently the TrailerVote ecosystem, due to resource contraints, does not accept file uploads. Each asset must be ingested from a url which either needs to be public, or hold the credentials to access it. Additional headers or authentication is currently not supported. Additionally non-shortlinked and non-mobile youtube urls are also supported; these start with https://www.youtube.com/watch?=xxx and are processed using `youtube-dl`.

```
> POST https://example.trailervote.com/api/products/c0782ddc-5926-4d6b-94e1-a3bcaadd867f/videos
> Accept: application/vnd.trailervote.product.video.v1+json, application/vnd.trailervote.errors.v1+json; q=0.1
> Content-Type: application/vnd.trailervote.product.video.create.v1+json
>
> {
>   "video": {
>     "identifier": "youtube:xjDjIWPwcPU",
>     "type": "trailer",
>     "source_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xjDjIWPwcPU",
>     "data": {
>       "tmdb": { ... }
>     }
>   }
> }
```
After creating a video, it is scheduled for processing. You may query the video (by a `GET` on the returned `self` url) and check the `data->processed` field. Once that is true, the video has been optimised and processed and ready for usage in the TrailerVote ecosystem. The ingestion system does not support automatic transcoding at the moment, so a `Content-Type` of `video/mp4` is recommended.


If you're using one of the [packages](ingestion), use:

| language |  |
|----------|---|
| Ruby | `TrailerVote::Api::Product::Video::Create` |
| JavaScript | `trailervote-api/product/video/create` |
